
#Individual Capstone Assessment
- Project Name: Exploiter
- Student: Robert Deal (CS) (dealre@mail.uc.edu) (937-760-7719)

The point of my senior design project is to demonstrate all I have learned from my coop experiences and classes here at UC. I have learned a lot in the CS field generally from my classes, and more specifically in my time at my coop in regards to cyber security work. My intention is for this exploitation tool to act as a final test of whether I can fully construct such a tool that an attacker would use to attack the average system, and explain the intricacies of the various methods used. It really will cover the a wide scope of the cyber security field, as well as the depth in getting a fully functional tool that can complete the entire chain of steps. Cyber security is something that people can generally say "do this most of the time" or "this might be a problem" but it's hard for people to fully understand the implication of things. I want to solidify in concrete for myself and others seeing the final result a genuine experience that makes them understand that it can't just be ignored because you don't fully understand it.

In my college curriculum, I have learned much in the way of working with assembly in ELTN 4083C - Computer Architecture and Assembly Language, the function of low level computer memory in courses like EECE 4029 - Operating Systems & Systems Programming, as well as obvious programming and networking classes like CS 2071 - Discrete Computational Structures. Each of these areas and many more will be tested in order to fully assemble a working picture of the end goal and complete it. The understandings developed will be key to fully grasping the problem. Besides these, it will involve parts of almost every class I've taken. The exploitation of vulnerabilities can be done in uncountable ways, and all I can really say I know now is that it's going to take a whole lot of them.

In my coop experience, I spend a lot of time on reverse engineering systems, creating payloads, and setting targets on modern systems. This project would be almost impossible without the knowledge gained from ICR Inc. The reverse engineering work is incredibly tedious and time consuming, but my previous experience should help to cut the burden and allow for faster identification of things that I've previously discovered. Interacting with tools I've used there like Ghidra will be most of the work, but work with python, C, x86, and all other sorts of smaller programs and languages will be necessary. The most interesting will be the relatively inconsistent identifying of older standards and poor practices that can be utilized for exploits. I won't really know what's possible until it has been found.

My motivation for the project largely stems from the desire to prove to myself that doing something in it's entirety like this is possible. I've usually worked on bits and pieces of a tool like this, but being able to say to myself that I've actually completely assembled from scratch a working example would be something amazing to really remember. I mostly intend to assemble a few different IOT devices, put them together in a network, look for any obvious vulnerabilities, CTEs, or just fuzz my way through and attempt to manipulate them in a manner that would really show people how these devices are just not as safe or harmless as some expected. It will be a very interesting example in how cyber security theory meets the practice, and how the different devices can be compromised. I hope also to be able to create some really terrifying results, like being able to connect to a wi-fi enabled toasted and getting it to turn on and catch fire. Obviously this wouldn't be done in an expo hall, but something similar might be demonstrable.

The goal is really to produce a software that can reliably attack an array of devices in front of an audience. My initial ideas are a printer, a wi-fi camera, an amazon alexa, an IOT toaster, and possibly things like a laptop PC. Whether I can judge it a success is something of a different question. I could spend all my time and end up with a single little trick, but that would certainly not be enough. I could make something that drains the bank account of any laptop in the room, but that's obviously going to be a level far ahead of my abilities, and would be more of a question for billion dollar agencies. I think the only way to really determine whether I have done a good job is with three questions; did it evoke a reaction to passersby at the expo, did experienced people in the cyber security field seem impressed, and did it function reliably on it's devices in a way that anyone could have downloaded and used it. I think I can only know if I did a good job after those questions have been answered with a yes.